# M03 Assignment

## Short Answers (1 - 10)

### 1\. Why should you indent the statements in the body of a loop?

Makes it easier to read/follow/troubleshoot.


### 2\. Describe the difference between pretest loops and posttest loops.

Pre-test loops check a condition before the loop, post-test checks after.  Post-test loops always run at least once.


### 3\. Why are the statements in the body of a loop called conditionally executed statements?

Because they are only executed based on certain conditions being true - whatever the loop test is.

### 4\. Difference between While and Do-While loops?

While loops are pre-test.  Do-While are post-test.

### 5\. Repeat until false, not execute if condition begins as false?

While loop

### 6\. Repeat until false, execute at least once?

Do-While loop

### 7\. Known number of iterations?

For loop

### 8\. Why is it critical counter vars be properly intialized?

It controls the number of iterations - have to know where it starts

### 9\. Why is it critical accumulator vars be properly intialized?

We have to know where to start accumulating FROM when there is something to count.

### 10\. Why avoid changing counter var within the loop?

The update expression is responsible for that and it does so at the end of each loop.  Let it do its job.

## Fill in the Blank (16 - 26)

### 16\. To ***increment*** a value means to increase it by one, and to ***decrement*** a value means to decrease it by one

### 17\. When the increment OF decrement operator is placed before the operand (or to the operand's left), the operator is being used in ***prefix*** mode

### 18\. When the increment or decrement operator is placed after the operand (or to the operand's right), the operator is being used in ***postfix*** mode.

### 19\. The statement or block that is repeated is known as the ***body*** of the loop.

### 20\. Each repetition of a loop is known as an ***iteration***

### 21\. A loop that evaluates its test expression before each repetition is a ***pre-test loop***

### 22\. A loop that evaluates its test expression after each repetition is a ***post-test loop***

### 23\. A loop that does not have a way of stopping is an ***infinite loop***

### 24\. A ***counter*** is a variable that "counts" the number of times a loop repeats.

### 25\. A ***running total*** is a sum of numbers that accumulates with each iteration of a loop.

### 26\. An ***accumulator*** is a variable that is initialized to some starting value, usually zero, then has numbers added to it in each iteration of a loop

\pagebreak

## Algorithm Workbench (35, 39, 40)

### 35\. Write a while loop that lets the user enter a number. The number should be multiplied by 10, and the result stored in the variable product. The loop should iterate as long as product contains a value less than 100.

```
int main() {

    const int MAXPRODUCT = 100;
    int userNum;

    do {
        cout << "Enter a number\n";
        cin >> userNum;
        userNum *= 10;
        cout << userNum << "\n";
    } while (userNum < MAXPRODUCT);

    return 0;
}
```

### 39\. Write a nested loop that displays 10 rows of '#' characters. There should be 15 '#' characters in each row.

```
    for ( int r = 0; r < 10; r++ ) {
        for ( int c = 0; c < 15; c++ ) {
            cout << "#";
        }
        cout << "\n";
    }
```

### 40\. Convert the following while loop to a do-while loop:

```
    int x = 1;
    while (x > 0)
    {
        cout << "enter a number: ";
        cin >> x;
    }

```
***Converted:***
```
    int x;
    do {
        cout << "enter a number: ";
        cin >> x;
    } while (x > 0);
```
