# M05 Assignment

## Short Answer 1 - 7

### 1\. Why do local variables lose their values between calls to the function in which they are defined?

The variable is only useful within the function in which it's defined due to its scope.


### 2\. What is the difference between an argument and a parameter variable?  

An argument is what is used to call the function.  Parameter is what's used inside the function.


### 3\. Where do you define parameter variables?

In the function definition.  Param type is referenced in the prototype but not its variable param name.


### 4\. 1f you are writing a function that accepts an argument and you want to make sure the function cannot change the value of the argument, what do you do?

Pass the arg by value, not by reference.


### 5\. When a function accepts multiple arguments, does it matter in what order the arguments are passed?

Yes


### 6\. How do you return a value from a function?  

Using the return keyword. Return type is part of func definition.


### 7\. What is the advantage of breaking your application's code into several small procedures?  

Easier to follow. Easier to troubleshoot. Easier to reuse.

\pagebreak

## Algorithm Workbench \#34

### A program contains the following function:

```
int cube( int num ) {
    return num * num * num;
}
```

Write a statement that passes the value 4 to this function and assigns its return value
to the variable result.

```
int result = cube(4);
```


## Find the Errors 56 - 60

### 56\.

```
int total( int value1, int value2, int value3 ) {
    return value1 + value2 + value3;
}
```

### 57\.

```
double average( int value1, int value2, int value3 ) {
    return (value1 + value2 + value3 ) / 3;
}
```


### 58\.

```
int area( int width, int length = 30 ) {
    return width * length;
}
```


### 59\.

```
void getValue( int &value ) {
    cout << "Enter a value: ";
    cin >> value;
}
```

### 60\.

Cannot overlaod a function without parameters.
