# M06 - Assignment

## Short Answer

### 1\. What is the difference between a size declarator and a subscript?  

Size declarator specifies the size of the array.  Subscript specifies position in array.


### 2\. Look at the following array definition:

```int values(10];```

* How many elements does the array have?  _10_
* What is the subscript of the first element in the array? _0_
* What is the subscript of the last element in the array? _9_
* Assuming that an int uses 4 bytes of memory, how much memory does the array use?  _40_


### 3\. Why should a function that accepts an array as an argument, and processes that array, also accept an argument specifying the array's size?

So the function is aware of how many elements the array contains.


### 4\. Consider the following array definition:

```int values[5] = { 4, 7, 6, 8, 2 };```

What doe each of the following statemen display?

* cout << values[4] << endl; - 2
* cout << (values[2] + values[3]) << endl; - 14
* cout << ++values[1] << endl; - 8


### 5\. How do you define an array without providing a size declarator?

Initialize with a list: ```int nums[] = {1,4,2,7}```


### 6\. Lo0k at the following array definition:

```int numbers[5] = { 1, 2, 3 };```

* What value is stored in numbers[2]? *3*
* What value is stared in numbers[ 4]? *0*

\pagebreak

## Algorithm Workbench \#41

### names is an integer array with 20 elements. Write a regular for loop, as well a a range-based for loop that prints each element of the array.

```
for (int n = 0; n < 20; n++) {
    cout << names[n] << " ";
}

cout << endl << endl;

for (int val: names) {
    cout << val << " ";
}
```



## True or False (50-60)

* 50\. True - An array's size declarator can be either a literal, a named constant, or a variable.
* 51\. True - To calculate the amount of memory used by an array, multjply the number of elements by the number of bytes each element uses
* 52\. True - The individual elements of an array can be accessed and indexed by unique numbers - subscript.
* 53\. False - The first element in an array is accessed by the subscript 1
* 54\. True - The subscript of the last element in a single-dimens~onal array is one less than the total number of elements in the array.
* 55\. False - The contents of an array element cannot be displayed with cout.
* 56\. True - Subscript numbers may be stored in variables.
* 57\. True - You can write programs that use invalid subscripts for an array. _It won't work, but you can do it._
* 58\. False - Arrays cannot be initialized when they are defined. A loop, or other means must be used.
* 59\. True - The values in an initialization list are stored in the array in the order they appear in the list.
* 60\. True - C++ allows you ro partially initialize an array.
