# M09 | Assignment

## Short Answwers 1 - 7

### 1\. What does the indirection operator do?

It dereferences the pointer and allows working with the value held at the pointer address.

### 2\. Look at the following code:

```
int X = 7;
int *iptr = &x;
```
What will be displayed if you send the expression *iptr to cout? What happens if you send the expression ptr to cout?

I'm going to assume ptr was a typo and it meant itpr.

\*iptr will output 7 as it's dereferencing the pointer and using the value stored at the address held by iptr.

iptr will output the memorey address where the value of X is stored.

### 3\. So far you have learned three different uses for the • operator. What are they?

1. defining a pointer var
1. dereferencing a pointer (indirection)
1. multiplication (?) that's the only other use I'm aware of.


### 4\. What math operations are allowed on pointers?

Addition and subtraction

### 5\. Assuming ptr is a pointer to an int, what happens when you add 4 to ptr?

It increases the pointer's value by x multiplied by the sizeof the type it is pointing to (4 bytes for int).

### 6\. Look at the following array definition:

```
int numbers[) = { 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 };
```
What will the following statement display?
```
cout <<*(numbers+ 3) << endl;
```

It will display numbers[3], or 8

\pagebreak

### 7\. What is the purpose of the new operator?

To allocate memory dynamically.


## Fill in the Blank 13 - 19

### 13\. Each byte in memory is assigned a unique _____

Address

### 14\. The ____ operator can be used to determine a variable's address

Ampersand (&)

### 15\. ____ variables are designed to hold addresses.

Pointer

### 16\. The ____ operator can be used to work with the variable a pointer points to.

Indirection (*)

### 17\. Array names can be used as ____ , and vice versa.

Pointers

### 18\. Creating variables while a program is running is called ____

Dynamic memory allocation

### 19\. The ____ operator is used to dynamically allocate memory

New

## Algorithm Workbench 24 - 27


### 24\. Look at the following code:
```
double value= 29.7;
double •ptr = &value;
```
Write a cout statement that uses the ptr variable to display the contents of the value variable.

```
cout << *ptr;
```

\pagebreak

### 25\. Look at the following array def:

```
int set [10];
```
Write a statement using pointer notation that stores the value 99 in set [7] ;

```
*(set + 7) = 99;
```

### 26\. Write code that dynamically allocates an array of 20 integers, then uses a loop to allow the user to enter values for each element of the array.

```
int *arr = new int[20];
for ( int n = 0; n < 20; n++ ) {
    cout << "Enter number for element " << n << endl;
    cin >> arr[n];
}
```

### 27\. Write code that dynamically allocates an array of 20 integers, then uses a lo0p to allow the user to enter values for each element of the array.

```
int size = 20;
int *arr = new int[size];
for ( int n = 0; n < size; n++ ) {
    cout << "Enter number for element " << n << endl;
    cin >> *(arr + n);
}
```

## True or False 31 - 37

### 31\. T - Each byte of memory is assigned a unique address.

### 32\. F - The • operaror is used to get the address of a variable.

### 33\. T - Pointer variables are designed to hold addresses.

### 34\. F - The & symbol is called the indirection operator.

### 35\. F - The & operator dereferences a pointer

### 36\. T - When the indirection operator is used with a pointer variable, you are actually working with the value the pointer is pointing to.

### 37\. F - Array names cannot be dereferenced with the indirection operator.

\pagebreak

## Find the Error 48 - 55

### 48\. 

```
int* ptr = nullptr;
```

### 49\. I'm not sure what this is trying to do in the first place.
```
x = *ptr;
```

### 50\. 
```
ptr = &x;
```

### 51\.
```
int x, *ptr = nullptr;
ptr = &x;
*ptr = 100;
cout << x << endl;
```

### 52\.
`` cout << *(numbers+ 3) << endl; ``

### 53\.
`` *iptr = 2; ``


### 54\.
`` int *fptr = level; ``

### 55\. Again, not really sure what's being attempted here.
```
int ivalue, *iptr;
iptr = &ivalue;
```

