# M10 | Assignment

## Short Answers 8 - 12

### 8\. What happens when a program uses rhe new operator to allocate a block of memory, but the amount of requested memory isn't available? How do programs written with older compilers handle this?

Exception is thrown, program terminates.

### 9\. What is the purpose of the delete operator?

To free memory that was allocated using the new operator.

### 10\. Under what circumstances can you successfully return a pointer from a function?

Pointer reference must still exist.

### 11\. What is the diHerence between a pointer to a constant and a constant pointer?

Pointer to const: points to a const that cannot be changed.

Const pointer: cannot change what pointer references.

### 12\. What are two advantages of declaring a pointer parameter as a constant pointer?

1. Protects from changing the arg in the func.
1. Function can accept both const and non-const addresses

## Fill in the Blank 20 - 23

### 20\. Under older compilers, if the new operator cannot allocate the amount of memory requested, it returns _____ 

0 or NULL

### 21\. A pointer that contains the address O is called a(n) ____ pointer.

nullptr

### 22\. When a program is finished with a chunk of dynamically allocated memory, it should free it with the ____ operator.

Delete

### 23\. You should only use pointers with delete that were previously used with _____

New

## Algorithm Workbench 28 - 30

### 28\. Look at the following function definition:

```
void getNumber(int &n) {
    cout << "Enter a number: ";
    cin >> n;
}
```
Rewrite the functino so n is a pointer

```
void getNumber(int *n) {
    cout << "Enter a number: ";
    cin >> n;
}
```
### 29\. Write the definition of ptr, a pointer to a constant int.
`` const int *ptr;``

### 30\. Write the definition of ptr, a constant pointer to an int.

``int* const ptr;``

## True or False 38 - 47

* 38\. True - When you add a value to a pointer, you are actually adding that number times the size of the data type referenced by the pointer.
* 39\. True - The address operator is nor needed co assign an array's address to a pointer.
* 40\. True - You can change the address that an array name points to.
* 41\. False - Any mathematical operation, including multiplication and division, may be performed on a pointer.
* 42\. True - Pointers may be compared using the relational operators.
* 43\. True (in my opinion) - When us"ed as function parameters, reference variables are much easier to work with than po.inters.
* 44\. True - The new operator dynamically allocates memory
* 45\. False - A pointer variable that has not been initialized is called a null pointer.
* 46\. True - The address O is generally considered unusable.
* 47\. False - In using a pointer with the delete operator, it is not necessary for the pointer to have been previously used with the new operator.

\pagebreak

## Find the Error 56 - 62

### 56\. 
```
void doubleVal(int *val) {
    *val *= 2;
}
```
### 57\.
`` pint = new int;``

### 58\.
```
int *pint = nullptr;
pint = new int;
if (*pint == 0){
    *pint = 100;
} else {
    cout << "Memory allocation error\n";
}
```

### 59\.
```
delete [] pint;
```
### 60\.
```
int *getNum() {
    int *wholeNum;
    cout << "enter";
    cin >> *wholeNum;

    return wholeNum;
}
```
### 61\.
```
const int arr[] = { 1, 2, 3 } ;
const int *ptr = arr;
```
### 62\.
```
void doSomething(int const *ptr) {
    int localArray[] = {1, 2, 3};
    ptr = localArray;
}
```
