# M12 | Assignment

## Short Answer 1 - 8

### 1\. What is the difference between a class and an instance of the class?

Class defines a data type.  Instance is an object of that data type in memory.

### 2\. What is the difference between the following Person structure and Person class?

Struct members are public by default, Class members private.

### 3\. What is the default access specification of class members?

Private

### 4\. Look at the following function header for a member function:
``void Circle::getRadius()``

What is the name of the function?

``getRadius()``

Of what class is the function a member?

``Circle``


### 5\. A contractor uses a blueprint to build a set of identical houses. Are classes analogous to the blueprint or the houses?

Blueprint

### 6\. What is a mutator function? What is an accessor function?

Mutator: Changes a value - getter

Accessor: Retrieves a value - setter

### 7\. Is it a good idea to make member variables private? Why or why not?

Depends on the scenario. In general though, yes as it prevents them from being modified outsie the class.

### 8\. Can you think of a good reason to avoid writing statements in a class member function that use cout or cin?

Not yet.

## Algorithm Workbench 43 - 45

### 43\. Write a class declaration named Circle with a private member variable named radius.  Write set and get functions to access the radius variable, and a function named getArea that returns the area of the circle.

```
class Circle {
    const double pi = 3.14159;
    double radius;
public:
    double getRadius() const;

    void setRadius(double);

    double getArea();
};

double Circle::getArea() {

    double area = pi * pow(this->radius, 2);

    return area;
}

double Circle::getRadius() const {
    return this->radius;
}

void Circle::setRadius(double newRadius) {
    this->radius = newRadius;
}
```

\pagebreak

### 44\. Add a default constructor to the Circle class in Question 43. The constructor should initialize the radius member to 0.

```
class Circle {
    const double pi = 3.14159;
    double radius;
public:
    double getRadius() const;

    void setRadius(double);

    double getArea();

    Circle();
};
Circle::Circle(){
    this->radius = 0;
};

double Circle::getArea() {

    double area = pi * pow(this->radius, 2);

    return area;
}

double Circle::getRadius() const {
    return this->radius;
}

void Circle::setRadius(double newRadius) {
    this->radius = newRadius;
}
```

\pagebreak

### 45\. Add an overloaded constructor to the Circle class in Question 44. The constructor should accept an argument and assign its value to the radius member variable.

```
class Circle {
    const double pi = 3.14159;
    double radius;
public:
    double getRadius() const;

    void setRadius(double);

    double getArea();

    Circle();
    Circle(double);
};
Circle::Circle(){
    this->radius = 0;
};
Circle::Circle(double radius) {
    this->radius = radius;
}

double Circle::getArea() {

    double area = pi * pow(this->radius, 2);

    return area;
}

double Circle::getRadius() const {
    return this->radius;
}

void Circle::setRadius(double newRadius) {
    this->radius = newRadius;
}
```

\pagebreak

## True or False 51 - 58

### 51\. Private members must be declared before public members.  

False

### 52\. Class members are private by default.  

True

### 53\. Members of a struct are private by default.  

False

### 54\. Classes and structures in C++ are very similar.  

True

### 55\. All private members of a class must be declared together.  

False

### 56\. All public members of a class must be declared together.  

False

### 57\. It is legal to define a pointer to a class object.  

True

### 58\. You can use the new operator to dynamically allocate an instance of a class.  

True

## Find the Errors 73, 74

### 73\.

```
private, public need colons
void setCenter(double, double);
void setRadius(double);
```

### 74\. This is such a mess I'm not even sure what the class was intended to look like.

Private, Public capitalized, semicolons instead of colons, functions and vars with same name, funcs have no return...
